---
layout: post
title: Data and Compute Resources for Research seminars
description: Data Science news
---

The Data and Compute Resources for Research seminar took place at RSES on Thursday the 22nd of February. After an introduction by RSES Director Prof. Steve Eggins, Dr. Lesley Wyborn (Adjunct Fellow, ANU) gave an overview of the seminars that aimed at providing information about the computational and data resources available at RSES, and more broadly ANU, for RSES staffs and students.

During the first talk, Paul Davidson (RSES IT Manager) outlined the existing facilities at RSES for computation, data management and data backup. Then Elke Dawson (ANU Manager, Open Research) presented the various facilities that offer data management solutions at ANU, as for instance ANU Data Commons. Following this, Dr. Ben Evans (Associated Director, Research, Engagement and Initiatives, National Computational Infrastructure NCI) presented the infrastructures of NCI and the various
unique possibilities that it offers. This includes Virtual Desktop Interfaces / Virtual Laboratories, various geoscience data collections, without forgetting the impressive Raijin supercomputer and its 64,656 cores. Keith Russell (Partnerships Programs Manager) extended this vision to the facilities offered in Australia, such as the Australia National Data Service (ANDS), the NeCTAR network that allows easy cloud computing or Research Data Australia for managing data and software on a long
term. Turning to the international scene, Dr. Wyborn presented the various solutions and growing strategies that are the target of a continuous effort by several international universities and institutions, with the aim to provide reproducible and durable science in our new numeric era. This international coalition includes, for example, journals such as Science and Nature, the Center for Open Science, AuSCOPE, NCI and ANDS in Australia (non exhaustive list!). Dr. Wyborn also presented the concept of the
Virtual Research Environment, which, by putting all pieces of data and software together, allows one to perform unique and reproducible research.

Those presentations were extremely helpful and rightly highlighted all infrastructures that are available to RSES ANU staffs and students. All the presentations are available in the [General Ressources Github repository](https://github.com/rses-datascience/GeneralResources) (<= click!) of RSES, make sure to check them out! 

We would like to thank the organisers of this very helpful seminar series:
-Paul Davidson 
-Dr. Lesley Wyborn
-?

... and the speakers for their fantastic talks:
-Paul Davidson
-Dr. Lesley Wyborn
-Dr. Ben Evans
-Keith Russell 
-Elke Dawson

*Post written by Charles Le Losq, posted 22/02/2018*
